Data science handbook chapt13:
In some companies and in some roles, being a data scientist means to be a
software engineer, building machine learning models in the back end. 
In this role, your success is very measurable--it is usually the accuracy
or precision/recall of your model performance. At other companies or in 
other roles, being a data scientist means that you’re an analyst working 
with engineers to help them determine what features to build and how users
are interacting with them. In this role, your success is less measurable

Some requests we get involve translating from qualitative problems to 
quantitative ones (identifying good proxy metrics to reach the right 
conclusion), statistics (doing the calculation on the data), and 
communication (presenting the data in a digestible manner).

let the computer do what it does best (crunch models, calculate metrics, etc.
) and let the humans do what they do best (interpret patterns and 
meaning, make accountable decisions, especially with respect to the rights
and wellbeing of other humans)

when people request data science, they really just want magic. don’t 
actually know what they want.

Data scientist have to think about problems, both as an engineer and also
as a statistician. You have to know what tests are right, how to approach
the problem, how to engineer the solution and how to sift through large 
datasets.


Skill needed:
1.Predictive Modeling: here, algorithms and some complex mathematical 
modeling are required. Visualizations are probably not as heavily emphasized.
2. Business Intelligence: here you engage frequently with SQL and some
scripting, but you don’t need great skills in computations and algorithms.
3. This is a spot in the middle: this is more science-y and R&D. Here you
want to ask much deeper questions about user behavior. You want to model 
user interactions and apply computational algorithms to gain business 
insights. This is a mesh between two extremes. You need some computational
background, and some aspects of communication, etc

Coursera course by Andrew Ng is popular

Data science for business
classification, regression and causal modeling ->supervised method
clustering, co-occurence grouping and profile ->unsupervised
similarity match, link prediction and data reduction =>both

regression: numberic target value
classification: binary target (including probability group)

 
 